# Lists

## Reading Material

Recursion and high order functions can be tricky if you don't have a functional programming background, for that reason take your time to read and really understand the concepts.

- [Recursion theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recursion_(computer_science))
- [Learn You Some Erlang: Recursion](http://learnyousomeerlang.com/recursion)
- [Learn You Some Erlang: Higher Order Functions](http://learnyousomeerlang.com/higher-order-functions)

## Exercises

### Reverse
This exercise consists in creating the function `lists_exercises:reverse/1` which should be [Tail Recursive](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/33923/what-is-tail-recursion), and take a list as argument and return another list with every element in the opposed position.

Example:
``` erlang
1> lists_exercises:reverse([1, 2, 3, 4]).
%% [4, 3, 2, 1]
```
[solution](solution/lists_exercises.erl#L14-L17)

### Remove consecutive
Create a function `lists_exercises:rmconsecutive/1` that takes a list and returns another one but without any consecutive repetitions.

Example:
``` erlang
1> lists_exercises:rmconsecutive([1,1,1,2,3,4,1,1,1,3]).
%% [1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 3]
```
[solution](solution/lists_exercises.erl#L21-L31)

### Even Fibonacci Numbers
Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:

` 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...`

By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.

[solution](solution/lists_exercises.erl#L35-L60)

### Reduce
Implement `lists_exercises:foldl/3` and `lists_exercises:foldl/2` using recursion (see [Erlang foldl reference](http://erlang.org/doc/man/lists.html#foldl-3)).

Example:
``` erlang
1> lists_exercises:foldl(fun(X, Y) -> X + Y end, 0, [1, 2, 3, 4]).
%% 10

2> lists_exercises:foldl(fun(X, Y) -> X * Y end, [1, 2, 3]).
%% 6

3> lists_exercises:foldl(func(X, Y) -> X andalso Y, [true, false, true]).
%% false
```
[solution](solution/lists_exercises.erl#L65-L73)

### Rotate Lists
Create a function `lists_exercises:rotate/2` that rotates the contents of a list `n` positions. It should take 2 arguments:

- A list
- A tuple of `{left, N}` or `{right, N}` that indicates the direction and the size of the displacement expected.

Example:
``` erlang
1> lists_exercises:rotate([1, 2, 3, 4, 5], {right, 2}).
%% [4,5,1,2,3]
```
[solution](solution/lists_exercises.erl#L77-L86)

### Run-length encoding of a list
Implement the so-called run-length encoding data compression method. Consecutive duplicates of elements are encoded as terms {N,E} where N is the number of duplicates of the element E.

Example:

``` erlang
1> lists_exercises:run_length_encode([a,a,a,a,b,c,c,a,a,d,e,e,e,e]).
%%[{4,a},{1,b},{2,c},{2,a},{1,d},{4,e}]
```
[solution](solution/lists_exercises.erl#L90-L103)

### Any
Write a function `lists_exercises:list_any/2` that takes a predicate (a function that returns a boolean value) and a list and returns true if any element of the list satisfies the predicate and false otherwise.
Note: Implement it without using `lists:list_any`.

Example:
``` erlang
1> lists_exercises:list_any(fun(X) -> X > 3 end, [4, 2, 0]).
%% true

2> lists_exercises:list_any(fun(X) -> X == 0 end, [1, 2, 3]).
%% false
```
[solution](solution/lists_exercises.erl#L107-L108)

### Anagram
Write a function `list_exercises:anagram/2` that takes a list of strings, a string ("MyWord"), and returns all elements of the list that are an anagram of "MyWord"

Example:
```erlang
1>lists_exercises:anagram(["god","cat","dog"], "dog").
%%["god"]

```

[solution](solution/lists:exercises.erl#L111-L131)


### First letter last letter game

There is a game called first letter, last letter. The object of this game is for one player to say a word apple, and for the other player to say a word that begins with the last letter of the previous word, i.e. elephant.

Write a function `lists:exercises:last_letter/1` that takes a list of strings and return a list where the subsequent name starts with the final letter of the previous name. Take the first element of the list as the first word of the sequence, that names cannot be repeated.


Example:
```erlang
1> lists_exercises:last_letter(["turnIp","Potato","peas","OniOn","yam","letuCe","broccoli",
 "asparaguS","Artichoke"]).
 %%["turnIp","Potato","OniOn"]

2> lists_exercises:last_letter([])
%% []

```

[solution](solution/lists:exercises.erl#L117-L141)
